.TH NBWORKS_NBNAME2BUFF 3  2013-05-01 "" "Nbworks Manual"
.SH NAME
nbworks_nbname2buff \- translate a name list into a string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <nbworks.h>
.sp
.BI "unsigned long"
.br
.BI "  nbworks_nbname2buff(unsigned char ** " destination ","
.br
.BI "                      struct nbworks_nbnamelst * " name ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBnbworks_nbname2buff\fP() function translates the
\fBnbworks_nbnamelst\fP linked list format used by nbworks into the
label-and-dot notation of a char string.
.PP
The argument \fIdestination\fP is a pointer to a pointer to a buffer
where the result should be written. If \fIdestination\fP is a pointer
to 0, \fBnbworks_nbname2buff\fP will \fBmalloc\fP() the buffer of the
appropriate size and write a pointer to in into \fI*destination\fP.
.PP
The argument \fIname\fP is a pointer to the linked list describing the
name to be written out.
.PP
\fINo check is performed to verify that the contents of
\fP\fBname\fP\fI don't have NULLs embeded in them!\fP Code
accodingly.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
This function returns the number of chars it wrote out, \fINOT
counting the terminating NULL\fP, or 0 in the event of an error.
.PP
The function will also return 0 if called with \fIname\fP that equals
zero or if the \fIname\fP list has only one member with no length.
.PP
In case of error, you should check \fInbworks_errno\fP for more
information.
.SH "FORMAT OF SCOPE STRING"
String is a NULL-terminated array of (\fBunsigned char\fP) and
consists of zero or more elements. The string may not have embedded
NULLs - such elements of the array are interpreted to be the end of
the array.
.PP
Elements of the array which are not dot characters, '\fB.\fP', are
considered to be a part of the label. No label may be longer than
0x3f.
.PP
NetBIOS specifications require this whole string to be shorter than
256 bytes. Nbworks does not enforce this.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR nbworks (7),
.BR nbworks_clone_nbnodename (3),
.BR nbworks_dstr_nbnodename (3),
.BR nbworks_create_nbnodename (3),
.BR nbworks_buff2nbname (3),
.BR nbworks_makescope (3),
.BR nbworks_nbnodenamelen (3)
