.TH NBWORKS_LIBCNTL 7  2013-05-01 "" "Nbworks Manual"
.SH NAME
nbworks_libcntl \- nbworks library control structure
.SH CONTENTS
	\fBstruct nbworks_libcntl_t\fP {
.br
	  \fBunsigned char\fP stop_alldtg_srv;
.br
	  \fBunsigned char\fP stop_allses_srv;
.PP
	  \fBint\fP dtg_srv_polltimeout;
.br
	  \fBint\fP ses_srv_polltimeout;
.PP
	  \fBunsigned int\fP max_ses_retarget_retries;
.br
	  \fBunsigned long\fP keepalive_interval;
.PP
	  \fBunsigned long\fP close_timeout;
.br
	  \fBunsigned long\fP dtg_frag_keeptime;
.PP
	  \fBunsigned int\fP dtg_max_wholefrag_len;
.PP
	  \fBunsigned long\fP emergencyfix_long1;
.br
	  \fBunsigned long\fP emergencyfix_long2;
.br
	  \fBunsigned long\fP emergencyfix_long3;
.br
	  \fBunsigned long\fP emergencyfix_long4;
.br
	  \fBvoid *\fPemergencyfix_voidp1;
.br
	  \fBvoid *\fPemergencyfix_voidp2;
.br
	  \fBvoid *\fPemergencyfix_voidp3;
.br
	  \fBvoid *\fPemergencyfix_voidp4;
.br
	} nbworks_libcntl;
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBnbworks_libcntl\fP() structure contains the fields for values
that control various aspects of the libraries operation. A call to
\fBnbworks_libinit\fP() sets the contents of this structure to its
default value. The function \fBnbworks_libinit\fP() also sets the
contents of several other internal data fields and should be called
even if you are manually filling out this structure at program start.
.SH FIELDS
\fBstop_alldtg_srv\fP
.br
  Stop all datagram servers. Field is boolean in nature. Non-zero
  means to stop servers, zero means to keep them running. Change in
  status is carried out ASAP.
.br
  \fBDEFAULT VALUE\fP: 0
.PP
\fBstop_allses_srv\fP
.br
  Stop all session server listeners. Field is boolean in
  nature. Non-zero means to stop servers, zero means to keep them
  running. Change in status is carried out ASAP.
.br
  \fBDEFAULT VALUE\fP: 0
.PP
\fBdtg_srv_polltimeout\fP
.br
  Sets the latency of datagram servers. Systems \fBpoll\fP(2) is
  called with this value as its \fItimeout\fP argument.
.br
  \fBDEFAULT VALUE\fP: 100 miliseconds
.PP
\fBses_srv_polltimeout\fP
.br
  Sets the latency of session server listeners. Systems \fBpoll\fP(2)
  is called with this value as its \fItimeout\fP argument.
.br
  \fBDEFAULT VALUE\fP: 100 miliseconds
.PP
\fBmax_ses_retarget_retries\fP
.br
  Sets the maximum number of times establishing a session is
  attempted. TAKE NOTE: redirects also count towards this limit. Zero
  means no retries.
.br
  \fBDEFAULT VALUE\fP: 4
.PP
\fBkeepalive_interval\fP
.br
  Sets the interval between sending of two NetBIOS session service
  keepalive packets.
.br
  \fBDEFAULT VALUE\fP: 60 seconds
.PP
\fBclose_timeout\fP
.br
  Sets the timeout value used when sending or receiving on a
  \fIsession session\fP. Timeout on a \fIsession session\fP closes
  that session. Non-standard, nbworks also uses this when reading on
  \fIdatagram sessions\fP. A timeout on a \fIdatagram session\fP does
  not close that session, mainly because \fIdatagram sessions\fP don't
  actually exist and therefore can not be closed.
.br
  \fBDEFAULT VALUE\fP: 30 seconds
.PP
\fBdtg_frag_keeptime\fP
.br
  Sets the time that the datagram server keeps the datagram fragments
  lying around, waiting for the other parts of the datagram to
  arrive. If the datagram can not be reassembled when this timer
  expires, the datagram is discarded.
.br
  \fBDEFAULT VALUE\fP: 2 seconds
.PP
\fBdtg_max_wholefrag_len\fP
.br
  Sets the maximum length of the WHOLE NetBIOS datagram when
  sending. The length includes everything that gets passed to the UDP
  layer, namely: (1) the header of the datagram, (2) the sending and
  receiving node name and finally, (3) the payload data carried in
  that particular fragment of the whole datagram (which may be the
  whole of data to be carried). Setting this to a value that is too
  low may result in an inability to send any datagrams. Use
  \fBnbworks_maxdtglen\fP() to determine if the value is set too
  low. It is not possible to meaningfully set this field to a value
  greater than 0xfff7 (65527), the maximum length of a UDP packet
  payload.
.br
  \fBDEFAULT VALUE\fP: 576 bytes (that is, octets)
.PP
The fields starting with \fIemergencyfix\fP are placeholders which
enable changing the API without changing the ABI. They are ment for
use in hotfixes for users which are unable, for various reasons, to
change the ABI of their copy of libnbworks. It remains to be seen if
this provision will ever get used in a meaningfull way.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR nbworks (7),
.BR nbworks_libinit (3),
.BR nbworks_reinit_myIP4address (3)
