.TH NBWORKSD 8  2013-05-01 "" "Nbworks Manual"
.SH NAME
nbworksd \- nbworks multiplexing daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B  "nbworks"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Nbworks is an implementation of the NetBIOS-over-TCP protocol
(NBT). It consists of a multiplexing daemon which runs in the
background and a library which gets linked into every process which
wants to use NetBIOS.
.PP
The daemon binds to ports 137/UDP, 138/UDP and 139/TCP. When nbworks
gets completed, the daemon will also bind port 137/TCP and a packet
socket. Because the daemon binds these ports, it must be run as root
or with appropriate priviliges.
.PP
The nbworks multiplexing daemon implements the NBT \fIname
service\fP. Currently, only the UDP-based part of the service is
implemented, the TCP-based part is scheduled for implementation
soon. The daemon also implements part of the server side of the
\fIdatagram service\fP and part of the server side of the \fIsession
service\fP. The other parts of respecive services are implemented by
the nbworks library.
.SH CONFIGURATION
\fBnbworksd\fP ignores all command-line arguments.
.PP
The daemon can be configured by the configuration file which is one of
the following, in order: \fB~/.nbworks.conf\fP,
\fB/etc/nbworks.conf\fP.
.PP
Currently, there is only one configuration option that is read and
interpreted from the config file:
.PP
\fBdefault_nbns\fP
.br
  Set the default NetBIOS Name Server.
.PP
Please refer to the sample configuration file in the packege's source
for a much more verbose documentation of the configuration file.
.SH BUGS
For a list of known bugs, see file \fBBUGS\fP in the package's
source.
.PP
Please report bugs to: <\fBakuktin@gmail.com\fP>
.br
Please prefix the contents of the Subject field of your e-mail's
header with \fB[nbworks-bugs]\fP for easier sorting and management of
bug reports on my part.
.SH AUTHOR
Nbworks has been written by Aleksandar Kuktin.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2013 Aleksandar Kuktin <akuktin@gmail.com>
.br
Nbworks is licensed under GPLv3 or later, see
<http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html> or file COPYING in the packege's
source. Commercial licensing for people or institutions unable or
unwilling to be bound by GPLv3 (or later) is available.
.br
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR nbworks (7)
