.TH NBWORKS_GRAB_RAILGUARD 3  2013-05-01 "" "Nbworks Manual"
.SH NAME
nbworks_grab_railguard \- grab the guard rail
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <nbworks.h>
.sp
.BI "int"
.br
.BI "  nbworks_grab_railguard(nbworks_namestate_p " namehandle ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBnbworks_grab_railguard\fP() function grabs a railguard which is
used as a dead-mans insurance that the name will be released if the
calling application crashes.
.PP
The argument \fInamehandle\fP is the name handle returned by a
previous successfull call to \fBnbworks_regname\fP().
.PP
A \fI"rail"\fP is the name for the Unix socket used for communication
between the daemon and the library. A \fI"rail guard"\fP is an
insurance mechanism that is usualy installed by
\fBnbworks_regname\fP() when registering a name. It works by opening a
rail and keeping it open. The library informs the daemon that said
rail is a \fI"guard rail"\fP and the daemon respond affirmativelly. If
your application crashes, the operating system will close the guard
rail. This will be picked up by the daemon and it will then execute
the name deletion routine for the name you registered the guard
against. Thus, a name held by a dead application is freed and made
available for further reuse.
.PP
\fIIt is \fB*NOT*\fP otherwise possible to recover the name in a case
of application crash unless the daemon is stopped and then started
again!\fP
.PP
Note that this operation is inherently dangerous if the connection
between the library and the daemon is not bulletproof. It is possible
that the daemon installs the railguard, but that the return message
does not reach the library which will then proceed to close the
rail. This will trigger the guard and the daemon will execute the name
deletion routine.
.PP
\fBRECOVERY:\fP In this case, you will experience that all servers and
datagram sessions for the name will cease to operate. Session calling
is implemented entirely in the library and will not be affected. Also,
already existing sessions, wether they were initiated by you, or if
they are passing through the daemon, will be unaffected.
.br
In this case, the easiest way to recover is to re-register the name
using \fBnbworks_regname\fP().
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
This function returns a positive number if the instalation was
succesfull, zero if it failed and a negative number if an error
occured.
.PP
If this function fails, the previous rail guard may or may not have
been deinstalled. If it errors, no new guards have been installed,
however, an old guard may still be present.
.PP
In case of error, you should check \fInbworks_errno\fP for more
information.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR nbworks (7),
.BR nbworks_regname (3),
.BR nbworks_delname (3),
.BR nbworks_relese_railguard (3)
