.TH NBWORKS_LISTEN_DTG 3  2013-05-01 "" "Nbworks Manual"
.SH NAME
nbworks_listen_dtg \- install a datagram server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <nbworks.h>
.sp
.BI "int"
.br
.BI "  nbworks_listen_dtg(nbworks_namestate_p " handle ","
.br
.BI "                     unsigned char " takes_field ","
.br
.BI "                     struct nbworks_nbnamelst " *listento ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBnbworks_listen_dtg\fP() function installs a datagram
server. This server exists in the nbworks multiplexing daemon and is
connected to the library via an open Unix socket.
.PP
The argument \fIhandle\fP is the name handle returned by a previous
successfull call to \fBnbworks_regname\fP().
.PP
The argument \fItakes_field\fP is a bitfield with possible values
being \fBNBWORKS_TAKES_ALL\fP, \fBNBWORKS_TAKES_BRDCST\fP,
\fBNBWORKS_TAKES_UNQCST\fP or \fB0\fP which determine if the server
will accept any datagram at all, any broadcast datagram, any unicast
datagram or only datagrams originated from names, that are passed in
the third argument.
.PP
The argument \fIlistento\fP is a linked list of \fBstruct
nbworks_nbnamelst\fP which lists names, all in the same scope as the
name whose handle is passed in the first argument that are listened
to.
.PP
An incoming datagram is first checked against the rules specified in
\fItakes_field\fP. If it matches, it is accepted. If it does not
match, its sending name is matched against an internal copy of the
list passed in \fIlistento\fP. If it matches those, the datagram is
accepted. If it fails to match, it is discarded.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
This function returns a positive number if is succedes, zero if it
fails or a negative number if an error occurs.
.PP
In case of error, you should check \fInbworks_errno\fP for more
information.
.SH NOTES
Please be aware that nbworks does not enforce the matching of sender
names contained in a datagram and the IP address from which the
datagram was received. Spoofing both is possible.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR nbworks (7),
.BR nbworks_regname (3),
.BR nbworks_delname (3),
.BR nbworks_sendto (3),
.BR nbworks_recvfrom (3)
