.TH NBWORKS_POLL 3  2013-05-01 "" "Nbworks Manual"
.SH NAME
nbworks_poll \- nbworks' wrapper implementation of \fBpoll\fP(2)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <nbworks.h>
.sp
.BI "int"
.br
.BI "  nbworks_poll(unsigned char " service ","
.br
.BI "               struct nbworks_pollfd * " handles ","
.br
.BI "               int " numof_sess ","
.br
.BI "               int " timeout ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBnbworks_poll\fP() function is nbworks' reimplementation
of \fBpoll\fP(2). In session mode, it is a wrapper around the systems
\fBpoll\fP(2), while in datagram mode, it is a standalone
implementation.
.PP
The argument \fIservice\fP is used to tell \fBnbworks_poll\fP() if you
wish it to operate in session mode or datagram mode. I can be one of
\fBNBWORKS_SES_SRVC\fP or \fBNBWORKS_DTG_SRVC\fP. Setting
\fBnbworks_poll\fP() to operate in the wrong mode for the passed
sessions is safe, although it will produce wrong results.
.PP
The argument \fIhandles\fP is a pointer to an array of \fBstruct
nbworks_pollfd\fPs that describe the sessions that are to be
polled as well as what should be tested for. This structure is a
rip-off of \fBpoll\fP(2)s \fBstruct pollfd\fP and looks like this:
.PP
	\fBstruct nbworks_pollfd\fP {
.br
	  \fBnbworks_session_p\fP session;
.br
	  \fBshort int\fP events;
.br
	  \fBshort int\fP revents;
.br
	};
.PP
The field \fIsession\fP is the session handle returned by a previous
succesfull call to one of \fBnbworks_castdtgsession\fP(),
\fBnbworks_accept_ses\fP() or \fBnbworks_sescall\fP().
.PP
The fields \fIevents\fP and \fIrevents\fP are exactly the same as the
ones used in \fBstruct pollfd\fP. See the documentation for
\fBpoll\fP(2).
.PP
The argument \fInumof_sess\fP describes how many elements are in the
array pointed to by \fIhandles\fP.
.PP
The argument \fItimeout\fP specifies the minimum time
\fBnbworks_poll\fP() should wait if no events are currently
available. This is specified in miliseconds. 0 means no waiting, a
negative number means to wait forever. Use with caution.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
This function returns the number of sessions that have an event
pending on them. In case of error, a negative number is returned.
.PP
In case of error, you should check \fInbworks_errno\fP for more
information.
.SH NOTES
When operating in datagram mode, \fBnbworks_poll\fP() waits in steps
of 12 miliseconds.
.PP
When operating in session mode, \fBnbworks_poll\fP() uses the systems
\fBpoll\fP(2) function to poll the underlying socket. However, the
systems \fBpoll\fP(2) will react to both the session header and the
data. Thus, \fBnbworks_poll\fP() will return success even in the event
an empty packet - the one which only has the header and no data -
arrives. Code accodingly.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR poll (2),
.BR nbworks (7),
.BR nbworks_regname (3),
.BR nbworks_delname (3),
.BR nbworks_create_nbnodename (3),
.BR nbworks_castdtgsession (3),
.BR nbworks_sendto (3),
.BR nbworks_recvfrom (3)
