.TH NBWORKS_CASTDTGSESSION 3  2013-05-01 "" "Nbworks Manual"
.SH NAME
nbworks_castdtgsession \- cast a datagram session
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <nbworks.h>
.sp
.BI "nbworks_session_p"
.br
.BI "  nbworks_castdtgsession(nbworks_namestate_p " handle ","
.br
.BI "                         nbworks_nbnamelst * " defaultpeer ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBnbworks_castdtgsession\fP() function casts a datagram session
for use with \fBnbworks_sendto\fP(), \fBnbworks_recvfrom\fP() and
others.
.PP
Nbworks send and receive functions operate only on session
handles. Since datagrams don't exist as sessions, it is necessary to
cast a holding session so that these functions can operate on them.
.PP
The argument \fIhandle\fP is the name handle returned by a previous
successfull call to \fBnbworks_regname\fP().
.PP
The argument \fIdefaultpeer\fP is pointer to \fBstruct
nbworks_nbnamelst\fP which describes the default peer. If this is a
linked list, those members that would specify a scope are ignored and
the defult peer is set to have the same scope as the name whose handle
is being cast. If the first name in \fIdefaultpeer\fP is shorter than
\fBNBWORKS_NBNAME_LEN\fP, \fBnbworks_castdtgsession\fP() will expand
it and set its \fIservice type\fP (AKA "name type") to 0x00. 0 is a
valid value for this argument and means that the session accepts any
datagram (with \fBnbworks_recvfrom\fP).
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
This function returns a session handle. In case of error, it returns
0.
.PP
In case of error, you should check \fInbworks_errno\fP for more
information.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR nbworks (7),
.BR nbworks_regname (3),
.BR nbworks_delname (3),
.BR nbworks_create_nbnodename (3),
.BR nbworks_sendto (3),
.BR nbworks_recvfrom (3)
