.TH NBWORKS_MAKESCOPE 3  2013-05-01 "" "Nbworks Manual"
.SH NAME
nbworks_makescope \- translate a string into a name list
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <nbworks.h>
.sp
.BI "struct nbworks_nbnamelst *"
.br
.BI "  nbworks_makescope(unsigned char * " buff ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBnbworks_makescope\fP() function translates the label-and-dot
notation of a char string into the \fBnbworks_nbnamelst\fP linked list
format used by nbworks.
.PP
The argument \fIbuff\fP is a pointer to a NULL-terminated string
describing the scope. See "\fBFORMAT OF SCOPE STRING\fP" below for
more details.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
This function returns a linked list which is a translation of the
string passed to it, or 0 in the event of an error.
.PP
The function will also return 0 if called with a NULL-string as its
argument.
.PP
In case of error, you should check \fInbworks_errno\fP for more
information.
.SH "FORMAT OF SCOPE STRING"
String is a NULL-terminated array of (\fBunsigned char\fP) and
consists of zero or more elements. The string may not have embedded
NULLs - such elements of the array are interpreted to be the end of
the array.
.PP
Elements of the array which are not dot characters, '\fB.\fP', are
considered to be a part of the label. No label may be longer than
0x3f.
.PP
NetBIOS specifications require this whole string to be shorter than
256 bytes. Nbworks does not enforce this.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR nbworks (7),
.BR nbworks_clone_nbnodename (3),
.BR nbworks_dstr_nbnodename (3),
.BR nbworks_create_nbnodename (3),
.BR nbworks_buff2nbname (3),
.BR nbworks_nbname2buff (3)
