.TH NBWORKS_BUFF2NBNAME 3  2013-05-01 "" "Nbworks Manual"
.SH NAME
nbworks_buff2nbname \- translate a string into a nbnamelst
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <nbworks.h>
.sp
.BI "struct nbworks_nbnamelst *"
.br
.BI "  nbworks_buff2nbname(unsigned char * " buff ","
.br
.BI "                      unsigned long " lenof_string ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBnbworks_buff2nbname\fP() function translates a string
signifying a single label into the \fBstruct nbworks_nbnamelst\fP
structure.
.PP
The argument \fIbuff\fP is a pointer to a string to be translated.
.PP
The argument \fIlenof_string\fP is a number describing the length of
the string to be translated. It may not be larger than 0x3f. If unsure
or don't care of the length of the string, call with this argument set
to zero. However beware, in this case, the string pointed to by
\fIbuff\fP must be NULL-terminated.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
This function returns the newly allocated structure. In case an error
occured, it returns 0.
.PP
In case of error, you should check \fInbworks_errno\fP for more
information.
.SH NOTES
This is only really usefull for assembling the scope one label at a
time.
.PP
\fBIMPORTANT:\fP If you wish to execute a single function call to
generate a NetBIOS name that is guaranteed to be
\fBNBWORKS_NBNAME_LEN\fP long - the length all nbworks function require you
to - you are really looking for \fBnbworks_create_nbnodename\fP().
.PP
This function does not test for embedded NULLs in the string pointed
to by \fIbuff\fP.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR nbworks (7),
.BR nbworks_clone_nbnodename (3),
.BR nbworks_dstr_nbnodename (3),
.BR nbworks_create_nbnodename (3),
.BR nbworks_nbname2buff (3),
.BR nbworks_makescope (3)
