.TH NBWORKS_ISINCONFLICT 3  2013-05-01 "" "Nbworks Manual"
.SH NAME
nbworks_isinconflict \- find out if the name is in conflict
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <nbworks.h>
.sp
.BI "int"
.br
.BI "  nbworks_isinconflict(nbworks_namestate_p " namehandle ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBnbworks_isinconflict\fP() function queries the nbworks
multiplexing daemon to find out if the name is in conflict.
.PP
This function should be called if you find that your servers, server
listeners, datagram sessions and call attempts have suddenly an
without explanation stopped working.
.PP
The only operation that can be performed on a name in conflict is
\fBnbworks_delname\fP(). Already open \fIsession sessions\fP are
unaffected, but everything else ceases to work.
.PP
The argument \fInamehandle\fP is the name handle returned by a
previous successfull call to \fBnbworks_regname\fP().
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
This function returns a positive number if the name is in conflict and
zero if it isn't. Additionally, a negative number is returned if an
error occurs.
.PP
In case of error, you should check \fInbworks_errno\fP for more
information.
.SH NOTES
Unlike many other implementations of NetBIOS where the whole
implementation resides in one address space, nbworks is split over at
least two processes. The daemon implements the name service and it is
the one process whitch has up-to-date information on conflicts. All
instances of nbworks' library have to query the daemon to get this
information.
.PP
Because of this, the information the library (and, by extension, your
application) has tends to be stale.
To combat this problem, nbworks has the conflict signaller
facility. By using \fBnbworks_setsignal\fP(), you can
order the daemon to send a signal to your application whenever the
name enters conflict, thereby having up-to-date information on your
names. See the man page for \fBnbworks_setsignal\fP() for more
information.
.PP
As an effect of the staleness of libraries information, datagram
sending and session calling will be fully operational untill the
library gets the memo that the name is in conflict.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR nbworks (7),
.BR nbworks_regname (3),
.BR nbworks_delname (3),
.BR nbworks_setsignal (3),
.BR nbworks_rmsignal (3)
