.TH NBWORKS_WHATISIP4ADDRX 3  2013-05-01 "" "Nbworks Manual"
.SH NAME
nbworks_whatisIP4addrX \- resolve for X
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <nbworks.h>
.sp
.BI "unsigned long"
.br
.BI "  nbworks_whatisIP4addrX(struct nbworks_nbnamelst * " X ","
.br
.BI "                         unsigned char " node_types ","
.br
.BI "                         unsigned char " isgroup ","
.br
.BI "                         unsigned long " len ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBnbworks_whatisIP4addrX\fP() function resolves the IPv4 address
of a NetBIOS node. It utilises the multiplexing daemon to execute the
actual resolving.
.PP
The argument \fIX\fP is a linked list of \fBstruct
nbworks_nbnamelst\fP which specifies node name to be resolved. Its
first member must have its \fIname\fP exactly \fBNBWORKS_NBNAME_LEN\fP
bytes long. Other list members specify the scope.
.PP
The argument \fInode_types\fP is a bitfield which specifies in which
mode of operation should daemon resolve the name. If more then one bit
is set, the modes are tried in orded until one hits. To specify modes
of operation OR one or more of the following: \fBNBWORKS_NODE_B\fP,
\fBNBWORKS_NODE_P\fP, \fBNBWORKS_NODE_M\fP or \fBNBWORKS_NODE_H\fP.
.PP
The argument \fIisgroup\fP is a boolean which, if set to non-zero
means that resolving should be performed for group names and, if set
to zero, means that resolving should be performed for unique names.
.PP
The argument \fIlen\fP is there to enable a speed hack. If you know in
advance how long the whole, but unencoded NetBIOS name with scope is
in the buffer, set \fIlen\fP to that value. Otherwise, set it to 0. It
is not possible to confuse the nbworks library by setting this to a
wrong value, although setting it to a too big value may invoke the OOM
killer. So contain yourself. Unless you're into that sort of thing.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
This function returns the IPv4 address, in host byte order, or 0 if no
address could be resolved.
.SH "HOW TO CALCULATE THE LENGTH OF THE WHOLE NETBIOS NAME"
First, count how many labels the scope has. Put that number into the
accumulator. Then, add up all the lengths of all the scope's
labels. Add that number to the accumulator. Add one to the
accumulator. Add NBWORKS_NBNAME_LEN to the accumulator. Finally,
add one to the accumulator.
.PP
You can also call \fBnbworks_nbnodenamelen\fP() on X.
.PP
If you wish to calculate how much space will a name take in a packet
once encoded, instead of adding \fBNBWORKS_NBNAME_LEN\fP in the above
calculation, add \fBNBWORKS_CODED_NBNAME_LEN\fP; or add
\fBNBWORKS_NBNAME_LEN\fP to the result of
\fBnbworks_nbnodenamelen\fP().
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR nbworks (7),
.BR nbworks_nbnodenamelen (3)
